# KV server

Each client interacts with the key/value server using a Clerk, which sends RPCs to the server. Clients can send two different RPCs to the server: Put(key, value, version) and Get(key). The server maintains an in-memory map that records for each key a (value, version) tuple. Keys and values are strings. The version number records the number of times the key has been written. Put(key, value, version) installs or replaces the value for a particular key in the map only if the Put's version number matches the server's version number for the key. If the version numbers match, the server also increments the version number of the key. If the version numbers don't match, the server should return rpc.ErrVersion. A client can create a new key by invoking Put with version number 0 (and the resulting version stored by the server will be 1). If the version number of the Put is larger than 0 and the key doesn't exist, the server should return rpc.ErrNoKey.

Get(key) fetches the current value for the key and its associated version. If the key doesn't exist at the server, the server should return rpc.ErrNoKey.

Maintaining a version number for each key will be useful for implementing locks using Put and ensuring at-most-once semantics for Put's when the network is unreliable and the client retransmits.

When you've finished this lab and passed all the tests, you'll have a linearizable key/value service from the point of view of clients calling Clerk.Get and Clerk.Put. That is, if client operations aren't concurrent, each client Clerk.Get and Clerk.Put will observe the modifications to the state implied by the preceding sequence of operations. For concurrent operations, the return values and final state will be the same as if the operations had executed one at a time in some order. Operations are concurrent if they overlap in time: for example, if client X calls Clerk.Put(), and client Y calls Clerk.Put(), and then client X's call returns. An operation must observe the effects of all operations that have completed before the operation starts. See the FAQ on linearizability for more background.

Linearizability is convenient for applications because it's the behavior you'd see from a single server that processes requests one at a time. For example, if one client gets a successful response from the server for an update request, subsequently launched reads from other clients are guaranteed to see the effects of that update. Providing linearizability is relatively easy for a single server.
